## TODO-API
## What is this?
A pretty simple and generic API REST, just for practice with:

* Node.js 8.11.3 (LTS) and some NPM modules
* Latest JS features such as classes, promises, destructuring assigment, arrow functions, etc.
* MySQL and MongoDB from Node.js
* JSDoc

perform a basic CRUD with tasks, and obviously for fun!

## What can you do with this API?
This API gives to you the possibility of use MySQL or MongoDB, just changing the following variable in `index.js`:
~~~
const DBMS = MySQL; // the DBMS is MongoDB by default
~~~
Then, you can use your own client, or front code, to perform a simple CRUD, which is already implemented for both DBMS. If you use Postman for testing, you also can import the `todo-api.postman_collection.json` file, which contains two folders with the endpoints, the default bodies (JSON syntax) for `PUT`, `DELETE` and `POST` methods and some output examples.

## Environment variables:
If you use Visual Studio Code, you can use the following code as an example to include the environment variables into your `launch.json` file:
~~~
{
  // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
  // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
  // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "Launch Program",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/index.js",
      "console": "integratedTerminal",
      "env": {
        "API_PORT" : "8000",
        "MYSQL_HOST" : "localhost",
        "MYSQL_PORT" : "3306",
        "MYSQL_USER" : "awesomeUser",
        "MYSQL_PASS" : "awesomePass",
        "MYSQL_DATABASE" : "dbtodo",
        "MONGO_URI": "mongodb://localhost:27017",
        "MONGO_DATABASE" : "dbtodo"
      }
    }
  ]
}
~~~
For another editor or IDE, just adapt the syntax for these variables and add their own specifications.

- - -

## Notes: 
* You can read the prettified documentation generated by JSDoc about almost all functions and methods of the API, just take a look at `/out` folder.
* If you don't have your own MySQL database, don't include the `MYSQL_DATABASE` environment variable and comment or remove the line `database: 'dbtodo' || process.env.MYSQL_DATABASE` in `/config/mysql.js`. The code of the MySQL connection runs a default SQL script if there isn't any available database in the configuration parameters :grin:
* If you want to use Docker in order to run the API as a container, a `Dockerfile` is also included. For MySQL and MongoDB images, just read the official documentation at [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/), update the environment variables if required and enjoy.
    * [MySQL](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql/)
    * [MongoDB](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo/)
* Finally, if you are a beginner as me, please, clone this repo and break all the code! :muscle: